so i want to shift the conversation a
little bit in the last few minutes we
have the mrna vaccines have been a huge
success in the fight against covid and
more broadly just as a medical
technology it's raised a lot of
excitement about
how this mrna technology could be used
in other diseases one of the ones that's
been mentioned is how this mrna
technology could be used in cancer care
so could you explain to us how that
could hypothetically work and how
optimistic you are about this making
some advancements in cancer care
well one of the major
areas of cancer care is immunotherapy
and we're still trying to understand how
immunotherapy works
what its
ranges and possibilities are now
immunotherapy of course involves
inciting the immune system
against anything in and in the case of
cancer it would be inciting the immune
system against cancer now um it's
important to realize that
uh the mrna vaccines allow us to
find a completely new way of
inciting or exciting the immune system
against cancer so you can imagine taking
a cancer
um cell finding out what's unique about
it
uh what unique proteins it expresses
and then just like you know you'd have a
vaccine against covid which would incite
your immune system against covid a virus
you could imagine um such a similar
thing with cancer you could imagine
inciting an immune response
against the cancer and thereby directing
immunotherapy against cancer now this
could be done at a cancer by cancer
level which would be
highly
dependent on precision medicine
in other words you'd have to take the
individual cancer and find out what was
unique about it
and then use the mrna to incite an
immune response against it or it could
be done as a preventative so you know
there are now several vaccines against
potential virally induced cancers such
as human papilloma virus
or such as epstein we haven't got a
vaccine yet there but for
a cancer-related virus such as
epstein-barr virus so it opens a new
frontier of being able to deliver mrnas
in
into a cancer
uh sorry into a human body such that you
could elicit an immune response against
cancer
one of the things that our laboratory is
working on
is something different which is to say
can you use the similar mrna technology
to change the genetics
of a human body
such that you can now attack the cancer
not in an immunological sense
but to make a difference using the mrna
to make a difference between the normal
cell and the cancer cells so there are a
really a variety of mechanisms mostly
immunological but some non-immunological
by which we can use these mrna
technologies to advance cancer care